SECRET SOCIETY DESCRIPTIONS
ANTI-MUTANT
BELIEFS: Eliminate mutant powers. Re-establish pure-strain humans as the dominant force in society. There is an evil, monolithic conspiracy of mutants to destroy true humans and impose a mutant dictatorship. If mutants are not destroyed, three-armed green-tendrilled monstrosities will take overt! With their fantastic mental powers, they may be warping your mind and playing with your emotions even now! Kill any mutant, anywhere, anytime. Just because a mutant has registered with The Computer is no reason to spare his life. Any deviation from the human norm is suspect. Anyone who even looks at you cross-eyed is probably trying to control your mind. Mutants are evil! Mutants are foul! Kill all mutants!
FRIENDS: Humanists.
ENEMIES: Psion.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The obvious irony of belonging to the Anti-Mutant secret society is that all its player-character members are mutants themselves. Unless the PC is ignorant of his own powers (hmm.. an interesting idea), being a member of Anti-Mutant is the equivalent of passing for white as a member of the Ku Klux Klan. This is obviously very dangerous, and under no circumstances would such a character reveal that he had a mutant power.
ADVANCEMENT: For executing mutants or uncovering evidence of mutation.
SPECIAL RULES: Though the player himself may know that all other player characters has mutant powers, he must remember that his character imagines mutant powers to be very rare. He should only denounce or execute a citizen with a mutant power if he has actual, incontrovertible proof that the mutant power exists. Such evidence is very hard to obtain. Anti-Mutant is generally loyal to The Computer, and is in fact heavily infiltrated by Internal Security. The society does have access to patrons of considerable wealth, and The Computer (through its Internal Security agents) may support society missions that are in keeping with its own objectives. Expensive and exotic, but generally legal, equipment is often available through the society. The society also maintains detailed records on all mutations and on those who are suspected of having mutations.
A TYPICAL ANTI-MUTANT CONVERSATION:
Anti-Mutant: They're in my mind! They're reading my thoughts!
Citizen: Hey, take it easy.
Anti-Mutant: You! You're doing it! You mutant scum! DIE!
ZapZapZap
Citizen: Unnh! (Thud.)
 
COMPUTER PHREAKS
BELIEFS: Playing with technology is fun. Breaking security is fun. Making systems crash is fun. Making long-distance phone calls and charging it to a High Programmer's account is fun. Being executed for treason is not fun, but il won't happen to you — you're too good. Oly failures get caught. You're riding the edge, expanding the envelope. Messing with The Computer is great - challenging, dangerous, and exciting.
FRIENDS: Pro Tech.
ENEMIES: First Church of Christ Computer-Programmer.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: This secret society is a very loose fraternity of like-souled individualists. They seldom meet in the flesh, but have elaborate communication networks using The Computer's own systems. Through these networks, phreaks regularly transmit information and gossip on almost any topic. Phreaks are fanatically loyal to the fraternity, and will face great risks to assist fellow phreaks. Each phreak has a code name ("Blue Meal", "Scrubot", "The Grand Deprogrammer", etc.). As a phreak gains a reputation among the fraternity for acts of daring and wit (that is, as he rises to higher degrees), he will find other phreaks increasingly willing to assist in his projects.
ADVANCEMENT: Advancing in this society does not give official power or influence over other phreaks, but the higher a phreak's prestige, the more likely he is to receive information, equipment. or cooperation from other phreaks. Activities especially admired include defeating physical and programmed Computer security and establishing access to data banks, sub-systems and programs.
SPECIAL RULES: Members of this fraternity may learn the treasonous skills of computer security and computer programming (see page 61), and may spend some of their initial allotment of skill points on these skills. Requests for information, equipment, or personal assistance are granted according to the cleverness and daring of the project and the reputation of the phreak. Any request which requires research may be slow in receiving a response, since most phreaks have their own pet projects that occupy their time, and searching for information in The Computer can take a long time and a lot of creative thinking.
A TYPICAL COMPUTER PHREAK CONVERSATION:
Computer Phreak: Password, please, huh? I’ll give you a password! (Hysterical giggle.) Have you heard about the new SX76B VISI microprocessor? It's orthogonal! Hey, pass me the algae chips.
 
COMMUNISTS
BELIEFS: Smash The Computer and its corrupt capitalist lackeys! All power to the Infrared masses! The masses are the creators of all wealth: high security clearance citizens are parasites fattening on the blood of the people! Al wealth to the creators of wealth. Death to the oppressor! From each according to his abilities; to each according to his needs. The Computer is the highest stage of capitalism; it must be destroyed so a People's State can be created, and all may live in equality and harmony. Inequality is evil; property is wrong; power to the people! Strive valiantly for the triumph of the masses! Never betray the Revolution! Smash The Computer!
FRIENDS: None.
ENEMIES: Everyone.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The Commies don't really know much about historical Communism, which was a dead doctrine by the time Year One of The Computer began. However, The Computer's intense persecution of Communism has led to its revival. (Certain citizens have concluded that if The Computer hates Communism that much it can't be all bad.) Communists have tried to reconstruct Communism from the few sources they’ve found, but many cells have very little idea what it’s all about. The Party is organized in the traditional cell structure. Each member is part of a cell containing 3-12 comrades, which is directed by a leader, usually the highest degree member of the cell. The leader reports to a higher member, etc, until the top of the organizational tree is reached - the Party Chairman At 3rd degree, a character becomes the leader of a cell, and at 4th degree, other cell leaders Because of the Party's strict doctrines condemning a hierarchical organization of power and responsibility, occasionally a member of low status will be selected to perform a very important task or to lead a group of Party members of higher status. This is often done completely capriciously, and may result in a very important Party member taking orders from a very low-level member. This has interesting possibilities for an unusual adventure.
ADVANCEMENT: Communists admire those with a good grasp of doctrine (high Communist propaganda skill), and who take daring action against The Computer. They also encourage proselytization — "infecting" citizens with Communist propaganda leads to promotion in the hierarchy.
SPECIAL RULES: The treasonous skill of Communist propaganda is available to all members, and a high priority is placed on achieving higher levels with this skill, Failure to study this skill diligently is looked on with extreme suspicion. Information and equipment are sometimes available to Party members, but a strong case for its importance and the importance of the mission must be demonstrated The Communists are intensely feared and despised by The Computer, and they are the most persecuted of all the secret societies. If The Computer discovers that a character is a Communist, the character will be apprehended and executed with dispatch.
A TYPICAL COMMUNIST CONVERSATION:
Citizen: Do you have your authorization form?
Communist: Da. I am giving it to you now, com.. er, citizen.
Citizen: Okay, looks good. I'm going to have to examine that large ticking package under your arm.
Communist: Surely that will not be necessary. (Rattles plasticreds in hand.) Citizen: Uh., no, certainly not. (Palms plasticreds.)
Communist: Thank you for your cooperation, citizen. I am very grateful. Here. Have a pamphlet. (Departs.)
Citizen: "Colonialism, by V.I. Lenin." (Turns pale.)
Another Citizen: Huh? Who's this Lenin guy?
Citizen: Uh... No one! Never heard of him! Absolutely not! Oh, look; I accidentally fired my laser and this pamphlet began to burn! What a pity. Uh... I have a hunch we should go after that guy.
Another Citizen: Huh? Why? Weren't his papers in order? 
Citizen: Uh. yeah! Uh sure!. But...
(An explosion is heard in the distance.)
 
CORPORE METAL
BELIEFS: Humans are obsolete. Computers and robots will inevitably replace them. The sooner the irrational elements inherent in biological intelligence can be excised from society, the sooner the perfect society can he achieved. There is no such thing as intelligence when emotion and irrational impulses can dominate beings ruled by pure reason. Biological life is obsolete and inefficient: the course of evolution will select for robots and machines over biological intelligence. Efficiency and clear reasoning are evidence of true intelligence. Those humans who can recognize these true principles must assist robots and computers in creating the perfect society of rationality and efficiency. Such humans play a natural role in the evolution of intelligent beings.
FRIENDS: Pro Tech.
ENEMIES: Humanists, PURGE, Frankenstein Destroyers
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: There is considerable difference of opinion within the society about how soon biological intelligence should be phased out in favor of mechanical intelligence. Some believe that the process will take many years, since machine intelligence still has its limits. Some believe that machine intelligences have inherent irrationalities that have been programmed into them by humans, and that the sooner machines can be freed from human in- fluence, the sooner pure reasoning will be possible. The more rational and unemotional a citizen is, the more likely he is to support a radical and immediate elimination of biological intelligences. One popular proposal is that humans be returned to the Outdoors from whence they came, leaving Alpha Complex to the robots and computers, permitting them to develop toward perfect intelligence without the distraction and contamination of emotional and irrational impulses.
ADVANCEMENT: The society looks kindly on those who eliminate large numbers of superfluous biological intelligences (humans). It also approves of those who remove the asimov circuits of robots (see page 83).
SPECIAL RULES: Many members of Corpore Metal are robots. However, there is a substantial human auxiliary who are eager to see the dawn of the Age  of Pure Reason. Many of these humans hope to be transformed into machines immortal, efficient, and unemotional through the gradual replacement of their biological elements with mechanical elements. A bionic replacement limb is a sign of great status in Corpore Metal, and certain highly advanced members have been said to have been translated entirely into hardware. Members have free access to robot operation and maintenance skills (see page 59). Other information is readily available in Corpore Metal. Corpore Metal members may identify themselves with a secret code and receive assistance from robot and computer members of the society.
A TYPICAL CORPORE METAL CONVERSATION:
Corpore Metal: Filthy meat brains. Think they're so smart, "Do this. Do that." I’ll rip off their meaty digits! They're nothing but sacks filled with slime and goo.
 
DEATH LEOPARD
BELIEFS: Wreck things, Have fun. Cause trouble. Have fun. Be rebellious. Have fun. Mock the powerful. Have fun. Defy The Computer. Have fun. Fragile things dropped from a great height make a nice sound. Life is boring. Anything you do to liven it up is doing everyone a big favor. Those who are too lame to enjoy themselves don't deserve to have a good time. Nothing is more boring than The Computer. But. it pays to be sneaky Having too much fun will get you executed Pretend to be a good citizen, but whenever you can get away with it, do something you aren't supposed to.
FRIENDS: PURGE.
ENEMIES: First Church of Christ Computer-Programmer
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Degrees 1 through 4 represent the four degrees of status within the small gangs that constitute most of Death Leopard: Worm, Real Person, Lieutenant, and Head Honcho. There are any number of Worms and Real People in a gang, but only one Head Honcho and a small number of loyal Degrees 5 through 8 represent the Hero, Superhero, Superstar, and Ultimate Beast levels of status. These are the star performers of Death Leopard. The reputation and prestige of small gangs is strictly local, usually confined to the residential unit where its members reside. The star performers are known throughout Alpha Complex, and their legendary reputations may even extend to other complexes. One can only reach this level by truly imaginative and entertaining public acts of rebellion and defiance. Once a Death Leopard member reaches these levels, he is in constant jeopardy of apprehension and execution; lives are often short and glorious. These are the role-models of Death Leopard. At the gang level it is acceptable to play it sale and be careful and secretive about membership in Death Leopard. Small-scale mischief and sabotage is generally the limit of involvement at this level, unless the member has ambitions of becoming a star, in which case he should begin building a reputation for daring from the very Start. Generally, the more ambitious, the shorter the life expectancy. At the star level it is necessary to risk being identified by The Computer. This is very dangerous, but some protection is afforded by loyal fans who look up to the stars. The greater the reputation of the star, the more likely a fan is to assist a star if he gets in trouble. In fact, this is a common way for a lower-level member to rise in prestige - by assisting (and thereby coming to the attention of) a well-known Death Leopard hero. "Missions" are generally initiated at the Head Honcho level. Worms and Real Persons receive challenges from their leaders, generally requiring some minor act of mischief or rebellion. Lieutenants and Head Honchos have to prove themselves from time to time with more ambitious projects, and occasionally, stars will plan large scale activities requiring the cooperation of a number of gangs. Normally, however, such projects are spur-of-the- moment inspirations. A lower level member will suddenly receive a challenge from a star-level celebrity; he must respond immediately to the challenge, or lose face and status in the society.
ADVANCEMENT: Imaginative mischief that involves little risk might get a character noticed by the society if performed frequently over a long time. The way to advance quickly is to engage in large-scale public craziness which presents serious risk of exposure and execution for treason. Failure to respond to challenges or orders from higher-status members is a good way to lose status.
SPECIAL RULES: Because of their frivolous nature and their primitive degree of social organization, Death Leopard members have little access to information or equipment from other members. However, a lower-status member must render assistance if it is required or lose face. Additionally, because of the chaotic nature of Death Leopard projects, various odd items of equipment and information may become available from time to time. If a member plans a project, and spreads news of it along the grapevine, he will sometimes be gifted with totally unexpected (and perhaps totally inappropriate) resources, like plasma guns, or passwords that permit access to The Computer's most secret data banks, or stolen, reprogrammed, and souped-up scrubots with full combat capabilities
A TYPICAL DEATH LEOPARD CONVERSATION:
Death Leopard: That's nothing, man! That's, like, diddly squat
Another Death Leopard: Sez you! I thought it was, like, pretty classy!
Death Leopard: Huh! Lemme tell you what I did. You know that jerk Nevo-U-MYN?
Other Death Leopard: The High Programmer? Like, the head of PLC?
Death Leopard: Yeah, yeah, him. I put fizz-wizz in his shower head
Other Death Leopard: You put... Oh ho ho When he takes a.. Hyuck. I'd sure like to see his face. A High Programmer. Wow. I gotta admit, that's like, radical.
Death Leopard: Groovy.
Other Death Leopard: The cat's meow. You sure are hep.
 
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST COMPUTER-PROGRAMMER
BELIEFS: The Computer is my Friend, I shall not want. Though I walk through the sector of the shadow of treason, I will fear no Commies, for The Computer is with me, and its monitors and IntSec Troopers comfort me. Serve The Computer, for those who serve The Computer well here in Alpha Complex will surely be Rebooted in the Eternal Main-frame; those who do not will surely be downloaded to the Peripherals of Damnation. The AntiComputer and its servants, the Commies, are everywhere. Be constantly on guard against their perfidious attacks against the Most Holy Database and destroy them and any who offer them shelter and comfort. Work toward the day when Mankind is Debugged, for then all will be Upgraded and Write-Protected.
ENEMIES: Communists, Humanists, Death Leopard, Sierra Club.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The FCCCP has a larger membership than any other single secret society and, therefore should be an extremely powerful organization. Unfortunately, the FCCCP isn't really one united group: it is actually a large conglomeration of related sects splinter groups, reformed churches and bizarre cults. While all of the groups share a basic belief system (The Computer is the manifestation of the Divine on Earth), the way they worship varies wildly. And most sects are far more interested in stamping out the heretics - that is, other competing sects — than they are in working together
Depending on the faction to which they belong, members of the FCCCP tend to fall in one of two broad categories: well-intentioned earnest lunatics of the type generally found soliciting donations at airports, or grim, puritanical, militant fanatics who like to dress up in black robes and conduct inquisitions in deserted sub-basements.
A congregation usually contains 10-100 lay members, a few disciples and one Elder. Elders know those in their congregation, a few other Elders, and one Reverend Programmer. Above this level, each member knows all subordinates directly assigned to him, a few members of equal rank, and a single higher ranking member. Congregations meet on an irregular basis in the barracks of the infrared. Requests for in formation or equipment are received there, and directives and missions are disseminated. Because The Computer is somewhat tolerant of this society, internal communications are fairly relaxed and informal. At lower levels, citizens often know others in their congregation; Infrared members often openly wear FCCCP badges.
ADVANCEMENT: Because of their regard for The Computer, members of the FCCCP admire those who rise to high security clearance, and society rank is often related to clearance. They are especially in awe of people who have programming skills.
SPECIAL RULES: The First Church of Christ Computer-Programmer is heavily infiltrated by Internal Security, and as such is usually ignored by The Computer as a harmless, and sometimes even beneficial, organization. The society rarely gives its members access to information or equipment which would normally be restricted by security clearance. This is because the society by and large accepts the rules of The Computer as justified. However, the group gives its members whatever information it can to help them advance in security clearance. If it believes that a character is a member of an enemy secret society, it will often inform its own congregants of his membership, and encourage them to eliminate him.
A TYPICAL FCCCP CONVERSATION:
FCCCP: Do you believe in The Computer?
Citizen: Uh.. yes! Certainly
FCCCP: Do you accept the Lord as your personal savior?
Citizen: I don't know. What's his security clearance?
 
FRANKENSTEIN DESTROYERS
BELIEFS: Man has a soul to guide his intelligence. Robots and computers have no soul, and are therefore evil and amoral. Machines are tools for Man's use. Intelligent mechanisms (bionic or mechanical) are a perversion of the natural order, and cannot distinguish between right and wrong, They must be destroyed.
FRIENDS: Humanists, PURGE.
ENEMIES: Corpore Metal, Pro Tech. First Church of Christ Computer-Programmer. General Description: Each member has an immediate superior to whom he reports, generally one degree higher than himself. Members of the 2nd degree or higher have one or more subordinates who report to them. Orders are relayed down the chain of command, and information and requests relayed up. A member is sometimes approached by other members with whom he is not acquainted. These other members identify themselves by a secret password and hand gesture. Advancement: Characters may advance by disabling or destroying robots or computers Damaging The Computer itself is especially respected.
SPECIAL RULES: Information about robot and computer technology is readily available to organization members. Other information may also be available, but may take days or weeks to obtain. Certain types of equipment useful in sabotaging robots and computers (for example, gauss weapons) are also readily available.
A TYPICAL FRANKENSTEIN DESTROYER CONVERSATION:
Frankenstein Destroyer: Just a sec, guys, I want to get a can of Bouncy Bubble Beverage (Approaches vending machine, inserts plasticred.)
Machine: Hi! I'm a talking vendor, R&D's latest invention designed to help improve the life of all Alpha Complex citi..
F.D: Goddamn it! (Wham.) Shut up! (Wham.) Give me my goddamn beverage, you.
Machine: ...zens. Please make your selection...
F.D.: Where! Is! My! Beverage! (Wham.)
Machine: A door is ajar. Please fasten your seat belts.
F.D.: (Pulls laser.)
ZAPZAPZAP
Machine: The white zone is for loading and unloading onl... whirSCREECHsproing
(A stream of Bouncy Bubble Beverage jets out of a laser hole, directly into F.DI's face.)
 
FREE ENTERPRISE
BELIEFS: Obtain wealth through the procurement and distribution of scarce commodities and services. Serve the Law of Supply and Demand. Give citizens what they want and they will make you wealthy, The Computer denies citizens many goods and services because The Computer cannot efficiently provide them, some because The Computer feels they are bad for the citizens, some because The Computer doesn't really understand what citizens want. Free Enterprise will provide the goods and services that The Computer cannot or will not provide, and Free Enterprise will make a good profit in the bargain.
FRIENDS: For business reasons, Free Enterprise tries to maintain good relations with all other secret societies. Because of the special services that Free Enterprise can provide, many other secret societies maintain fairly friendly relations, even when there are serious conflicts in basic principles.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Think of Free Enterprise as a combination of a big corporation, the Mafia and used-car salesmen. It's organized like a corporation or a crime racket, with executives at the top, middle-management and salesmen in the middle, and foremen and laborers at the bottom. Every member of Free Enterprise keeps his eyes peeled for a way to make a fast credit. At lower degrees, members may be simple hustlers, making a few deals, stealing a little on the side, and paying the organization for protection. Other low-level members may work for higher-levels, obtaining or producing some good or service for the higher-level markets (like illegal weapons, protection, or massage parlors). At the top of the organization are the kingpins or Clonefathers, who determine policy for the whole organization, enforce the unbendable Free Enterprise code of honor ("Screw citizens, but never screw Free Enterprise') and engage in periodic intra-society gang wars over markets. Free Enterprise can get you anything you want.... for a price, Weapons, hit-men, drugs, anthologies of puns, unwholesome entertainment- you name it. The organization has learned to exploit the particular genius of each of its member. If a character has good com- bar skills, he can become a goon or assassin. If he has persuasion skills, he may become a salesman or extortionist. If he has good technical skills, he can assist in many projects, from burglary to wire-tapping to robot theft,
ADVANCEMENT: As members rise in the organization, they take more responsibility and have freer access to Free Enterprise's considerable assets. But first they must serve as faithful soldiers, proving their loyalty, dedication, and obedience to the organization. At middle and upper levels they have subordinates who will follow orders; however, a member who fails to perform according to his superiors expectations may find himself demoted. Wasting resources, lacking initiative and imagination, careless use of violence - any of these may get a member demoted.
SPECIAL RULES: Free Enterprise does not pro- vide assets for free. However, it there's a fast credit to be made, they'll give you anything you need. If you can set up a deal and cut a higher-degree member in for a piece of the action, he'll happily provide equipment, weapons, and muscle to make the deal work Free Enterprise frequently asks Troubleshooter members to execute enemies of the organization, because Troubleshooters have the training, equipment, and excuse necessary to kill just about anyone
A TYPICAL FREE ENTERPRISE CONVERSATION: 
Free Enterprise: Hey, hey, hey! Lemme make you an offer you can't refuse. It's practically brand-new, only fired once in the line of duty. For you, only 16 credits, I don't make moral judgments, I'm a businessman.
 
HUMANISTS
BELIEFS: Alpha Complex ought to be a utopia: everyone's needs and desires are taken care of. But something has gone disastrously wrong. People are executed at random; the innocent are condemned along with the guilty. Everyone's constantly involved in a witch- Hunt for Commies. There are no Commies; no one is plotting to destroy Alpha Complex. The Computer is insane. The Computer must be brought back under the control of human All power to the people! The system is controlled by greedy High Programmers who control everything and enrich themselves. They are evil and bad. Our leaders are wise and good. They know what is best for the people. That is why they should control everything. Join us, and help us make Alpha Complex a utopia. When we gain power, you will be richly rewarded - for the good of the people, of course.
FRIENDS: Frankenstein Destroyers, Romantics
ENEMIES: Church of Christ Computer-Programmer, Corpore Metal.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Each member of the organization has two contacts in the next degree above and below. All requests. assignments, and communications are passed from member to member down the chain. Occasionally meetings will be organized at sate locations; policy may be discussed, or information and propaganda may be disseminated Al these meetings all members wear masks and disguise their voices: Members can be recognized by passwords and catechisms which are changed regularly to discourage infiltration. It is generally believed at all but the highest levels of the society that the Human Speaker (the title of the citizen at the 32nd degree) is the sole head of the society. In fact, there are several independent Humanist organizations, each with its own Human Speaker This decreases the chance that a catastrophic breach of security could wipe out the entire organization. Unfortunately, some Humanist organizations have been less successful than others in avoiding infiltration by Internal Security.
ADVANCEMENT: Members may advance by reprogramming robots or computers to respond to Humanist commands, by disabling robots, and by altering The Computer's programming itself.
SPECIAL RULES: A number of special subprograms have been planted in The Computer to serve humans and the Humanists. Consequently members at higher degrees have access to information not normally accessible to characters, and members requests for information are often productive. However, because communication between the numerous degrees of the society, is notoriously slow, response to a character's question may take a week or more. The society maintains a stockpile of illicit weapons and equipment which may be available to a member if he can show good cause (ie., explain how it will further the objectives of the society). Response to these requests is also notoriously slow.
A TYPICAL HUMANIST CONVERSATION:
1st Degree Humanist: Master, The Computer oppresses infrareds, forcing them to labor for the benefit of others. How shall it be when we gain power? 6th Degree Humanist: Everything will be different! Society will be organized with the best at the top and those fitted only for work at the bottom. Each will gladly serve for the benefit of all. 1st Degree; And we will direct others, for the benefit of all? 6th Degree: It shall be so. 1st Degree: Truly, the people shall rejoice at their liberation when we gain power.
 
ILLUMINATI
BELIEFS: Power is all. Becoming powerful is the only way to be safe. Ninety-nine percent of the human race is cattle. Only the strongest and brightest gain power. Serve the Leader, Serve or die. Do as we say Serve, and one day you may achieve victory over those who force you to serve — trapping and destroying them in their treason. The way to advance in our society is by gaining power over your superiors. Become powerful enough, and one day al the Illuminati will serve you and our power controls Alpha Complex. Our agents are everywhere. Terror and blackmail are our tools. Prove yourself superior by learning how to blackmail your superiors. Or prove yourself cattle by failing-
FRIENDS: None
ENEMIES: None
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: There are actually many Illuminati, each serving a different Leader. However, all illuminati are intensely secretive - even society members rarely know the true identities or purposes of other members. Consequently, many illuminati groups are partially or completely infiltrated by other Illuminati (not to mention by Internal Security). Each member communicates only to an immediate superior and an immediate subordinate. Whenever Illuminati meet, they wear masks. No society member knows the name of any superiors, while superiors generally know the names, and every treason, of their subordinates. Orders are usually relayed by note or a message scrawled on the wall. Codes and ciphers are frequently used. Absolute secrecy is the guiding principle. The weapons of the illuminati are terror and blackmail. Frequently, masked illuminati rouse citizens from their sleep, interrogate them, threaten them, and order them to commit treason. Failing to do so is a good way to get killed. Doing so is a trap; for the Illuminati then use the citizen's treason as a way to blackmail him into performing ever blacker and more treasonous acts.
ADVANCEMENT: illuminati members can advance by performing the tasks ordered by their superiors, and by learning the true identities of their superiors. Missions frequently involve setting up a victim for blackmail, but the Illuminati is noted for ordering subordinates to perform tasks that have no apparent value. No member is ever told the reason for anything. so they must perform these apparently ludicrous tasks without question- or face the consequences. The fastest way to advance is to gather information on superiors and blackmail or exe- cute them.
SPECIAL RULES: The Illuminati rewards its members with periodic credit bonuses, valuable equipment, and opportunities for skill training. It is unusual for a request to be acknowledged, so members usually don't bother to ask for anything. They just do as they are told and hope for a substantial reward.
A TYPICAL ILLUMINATI CONVERSATION:
(Fred-R is awoken late at night in his dormitory, All is quiet. A brilliant light shines in his eyes: beyond the light, he can dimly make out the form of a masked man.)
Illuminati: Candidate-member Fred-R-FUN-11
Fred-R (Gulps, shades eyes): Yes, sir!
Illuminati: Take this handivac to cubicle 17-4D Clean the shower head of Fizz-wizz
Fred R: Huh? Why is there Fizz-wizz in the shower head?
Illuminati: Do not ask questions! Do as you are ordered! Fail us and suffer the consequences!
Fred-R: Yes, Master! At once!
 
MYSTICS
BELIEFS: Seek the Inner Light. Cast off the Veil of Appearances. Drink deeply of the Well of Inspiration. Tum On. Tune In. Drop Out. Reality is an illusion. The Computer, the food vats, Commies, everything mundane = all these things get in the way of understanding. The truly wise man knows that these things do not matter. What counts is what is Inside. Each wise man has his own passageway Inside - drugs, meditation, hysteria, fasting. The Way does not matter. The Inside is what
FRIENDS: Romantics.
ENEMIES: None.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The Mystics are not strictly speaking a society or organization of any kind, but a community of like minded individuals who recognize the search for illumination in each other, and among whom illicit mystic texts are circulated. There are occasional gatherings of Mystics where stories and wisdom (and drugs) are shared. Though Mystics are theoretically uninterested in the practical world, they have amass ed a surprising amount of restricted information about Alpha Complex from highly-placed citizens who have dropped out and shared their knowledge with fellow Mystics. If a Mystic doesn't seem too eager to get it, he may obtain useful information by inquiring along the grapevine. Mystics have excellent access to drugs of all kinds (stimulants, hallucinogens, alcoholic beverages, soma, etc.), typically of a much higher potency than those legally obtainable in Alpha Complex, and otherwise unworldly Mystics maintain a fairly brisk trade in these scarce commodities.
ADVANCEMENT: Members might gain prestige in the eyes of other Mystics by discovering new ways to achieve enlightenment - new drugs, new transcendental disciplines, unusually holy or wise men, insightful Mystic texts like Winning Through Intimidation or Jonathan Livingston Seagull, etc. They can also advance by surviving potentially deadly experiences and living to contemplate them, and by turning non-Mystics on to their own Inner Light. SPECIAL RULES: The Mystics are the direct descendants of the original Old Reckoning Californians, and as such, many of their sacred texts contain casual references to Old Reckoning cultures. For this reason, Mystics may learn the treasonous Old Reckoning Cultures skill (see page 60)
A TYPICAL MYSTIC CONVERSATION MYSTIC:
Hey, man, I grok you. Like, totally cosmic. 
 
PRO TECH
BELIEFS: Encouraging research and the development of new technologies will enable Man to return to the Earth's surface and to the stars beyond. All problems can be solved with a better gadget. Research and design has been completely stifled in recent centuries. We must emerge from the Dark Age and into the light of the Machine Age. Robots and computers can transform the world into a playground for Man, giving him unlimited leisure.
FRIENDS: Corpore Metal
ENEMIES: PURGE, Frankenstein Destroyers.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Pro Tech has no hierarchy. Many independent groups work on their own secret projects; part of each member's job Is the procurement of the scarce resources needed to carry on these secret projects. This often involves theft of Computer equipment and the treasonous secret use of Computer research facilities, Pro Tech members recognize one another by secret signals. Each member has a code name by which he is known to other members The Pro Tech society has managed to penetrate Computer security in many cases and has access to programs and data banks that, often, not even The Computer itself knows about.
ADVANCEMENT: Characters may advance by helping others procure necessary research materials (i.e., by stealing equipment): by testing and studying experimental equipment; and by reprogramming bots or computers lo respond to Pro Tech society instructions. Special Rules: Technical information and special equipment are often available, though obtaining them may take time, since there are no formal communication channels.
A TYPICAL PRO TECH CONVERSATION:
Pro Tech: Hey, have you seen my new Model ZXLMVP235kidoo calculator with statistical functions, vector calc mods and chrome exterior? 
 
PSION
BELIEFS: Power through The Power! Mutants rule! Humans with psionic powers are obviously the evolutionary superiors of normal humans and the natural aristocracy of the human race. Their transcendent abilities make them particularly suited to govern humanity. The ancient traditional programming of The Computer must be brought into harmony with this principle; all positions of power and responsibility should naturally be occupied by those with psionic talents. If necessary, The Computer and its society must be destroyed to make way for the new order. Normal humans are to be pitied, but they too have a place in the new order - subservient, but benevolently watched over by their superior descendants. A Psion's main personal objective should be developing his psionic talents, refining and strengthening them and learning their capabilities and limitations. The establishment of the new order - the Psionic Age - cannot come without great suffering and disorder. This suffering must be endured so that the New Age may be born. However, those with psionic powers are rare, and must be protected whenever possible. Those without psionic powers should be pitied, but not necessarily spared.
FRIENDS: None.
ENEMIES: Anti Mutant
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: This society 15 extremely individualistic. There are no meetings and relatively little contact among members; names and identities of other members are seldom known. Most contacts are made through telepathy, and even training in psionic powers is usually done without personal con- tact between student and teacher. Communication (questions, requests, and reports) with upper levels of the society is handled by deep probe adepts who regularly monitor the thoughts of subordinate members. The society member can essentially "leave a note" in his mind and a telepathic probe, will eventually pick it up. Messages to members (replies to questions, mission assignments, policy and status reports) are sent by telepaths and may be received by a character at any time (usually, this being Paranoia, at inappropriate times) Characters with telepathy or deep probe powers are often drafted to help provide communication and monitoring services for the society, In so doing, a character would personally meet 3 to 10 Psion members and perhaps even a member of the Council. Each member of Psion is assigned a distinctive thought symbol which identifies him as a member to anyone scanning his mind via telepathy or deep probe. This symbol will have no significance to a telepath who is not a member of Psion
ADVANCEMENT: Characters may advance by developing their own mental powers, introducing new citizens with mental powers to the society, placing Psion members in positions of authority and responsibility, and eliminating Anti-mutants.
SPECIAL RULES: Whenever a Psion society member advances a degree in the organization, he is taught the use of a new psionic power. The gamemaster chooses which power the character is to learn. Available powers include deep probe, empathy, energy field, levitation, mental blast, precognition, pyrokinesis, suggestion, telekinesis, telepathy, and teleportation.
A TYPICAL PSION CONVERSATION:
Psion Elder: Use the Force, Luke-R! Use the Force!
 
PURGE
BELIEFS: Kill The Computer! The Computer sucks silicon! Since direct attack 15 impossible, sabotage and dirty tricks are satisfactory temporary measures. Reveal The Computer's obvious weaknesses and failures and encourage others to exploit them. The ultimate goal is to set all Intelligent beings (including robots) free of its dominance The Computer is evil. Whether the evil is the result of the original programming or the nature of The Computer is unimportant. The Computer's iron grip must be broken. Those citizens who meekly submit to The Computer are traitors to Man's higher destiny, Citizens must be taught to resist and fight The Computer with whatever resources are at hand
FRIENDS: Humanists, Romantics, Death Leopard
ENEMIES: First Church of Christ Computer Programmer.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: PURGE is organized like an army: each member reports to a superior and is often mobilized with a group of others to perform specific missions for PURGE PURGE expects member to follow orders instantly, eagerly, and without question; those who fall are not penalized unless they betray the society, but are purged from the organization There is a strong sense of cooperation and community among PURGErs. The unwritten law is to assist other PURGErs whenever possible - even at great personal risk. Individual acts of sabotage and defiance are admired, but obedience to superiors and success on group missions are also important.
ADVANCEMENT: Members can advance by per- forming acts of sabotage, by causing Trouble shooter missions to fail, and by performing flamboyant public gestures of defiance toward The Computer's authority. 
SPECIAL RULES: Technical information is readily and generously available through the PURGE network. However, penetrating The Computer's defenses takes time, and it may be days or weeks before a PURGEr can get an answer to a question. Equipment is also available through the network, since PURGErs are eager to rip off The Computer whenever possible.
A TYPICAL PURGE CONVERSATION:
PURGEr: so clearly it was all the work of Fred-R-FUN, who treasonously betrayed his native Complex.
The Computer: Sorry, citizen. Nice Try. However the evidence against you is incontrovertible, Please execute yourself immediately. 
PURGEr: Ooops. Oh, well, what the hell.- SMASH THE COMPUTER! THE COMPUTER IS EVIL! DEATH TO ALL ITS LACKEYS! DESTROY... ZOTZ. ping... Thud. 
 
ROMANTICS
BELIEFS: Recapture the historical glory of human society represented by the high cultural achievements of Old Reckoning, times. Leave the underground warrens, throw off the dominance of The Computer, and re-establish the world of fast-food restaurants, Frisbees, and Star Trek. Man was meant to live in split-level homes and watch "football" on "TV". To return to humanity's original happy state, Man must leave the underground warrens and "commute'" to work in millions of "cars" along the endless strips of concrete that should cover the land. Each man must be free “to get into his own space”. To achieve its objectives, the Romantics recognize that they must destroy The Computer and the confining society it has created and sustained for centuries.
FRIENDS: Humanists, PURGE.
ENEMIES: First Church of Christ Computer- Programmer, Corpore Metal, Pro Tech.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The Romantics secret society has at some time had access to the real history of the Old Reckoning and the disaster that created the world of Paranoia. Unfortunately, the society apparently has lost the original historical data, for it has turned the history into a sort of mythology glorifying the appealing and not-so-appealing aspects of the Twentieth Century California lifestyle as depicted on ancient television programs. 
ADVANCEMENT: Members may advance by sabotaging Computer operations or working against The Computer, but greater prestige accrues to those who obtain relics from the Old Reckoning era, Books and vidtapes are especially prized.
SPECIAL RULES: Members of this society have access to more historical information about the Outdoors than any other society. The treasonous skill of Old Reckoning cultures may be learned by all members (see page 60), and initial skill points may be spent on the skill. However, much of the information is tainted with the Romantics' peculiar mythology of the Old Reckoning; a time when everyone drank Pepsi, lived in suburban housing developments. worked in spacious offices in tall buildings, and watched TV whenever they wished. When in the Outdoors, the game- master may give these characters extra information about the ruins and primitive cultures they find there, This extra information should often be misleading since it is based on ancient television. (“It is well known that ancient autocars would invariably crash and explode when driven at high speed by anyone other than the true in heart. If driven by men with false motives, they are extremely dangerous.")
A TYPICAL ROMANTICS CONVERSATION:
Romantic: Pepsi hits the spot! Kojak/ like Ike! To the moon, Alice! Hubba-hubba!
 
SIERRA CLUB
BELIEFS: Cast off the shackles of technology! Back to Nature! The natural life will make Man happy: Return Man to his natural environment - Nature. Abandon the luxuries of technology and embrace the hardships of Outdoor life. Observe and imitate the beautiful models of healthy societies represented by creatures of the Outdoors. Man was not meant to live in burrows ruled by a queen bee (The Computer). Man is not an insect. Man is meant to hunt and gather and to live in harmony with the world of plants and animals. Science and technology have not made Man happy, Only Nature can make Man happy.
FRIENDS: Humanists, Romantics, Mystics.
ENEMIES: Pro Tech, Corpore Metal.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: The lower six degrees of the society are organized as clubs. At low degrees members are simply students of Nature; they receive a thorough education in the Outdoors and its ecology. Since Alpha Complex has little contact with the Outdoors, this education often leaves a great deal to be desired. For example, the nature knowledge of many clubs is often based on close study of the only natural objects they can find — a weed brought back on an expedition from the Outdoors; a real live natural cockroach; etc At the third through fifth degree, m e m b e r s are expected to assist in projects aimed at enabling Man to return to the Outdoors. Missions require members to obtain information about the Outdoors or perform political acts which prepare the citizenry for a future life in the Outdoors. For example, a member may be required to capture a nest of wasps and introduce them into the Complex in order to familiarize citizens with insects, or destroy a protective dome, permitting normal weather to invade a section of the Complex, Higher degree members are the cultural heroes of the Sierra Club. Generally these are citizens who have spent a good deal of time In the Outdoors and who are wise in its lore They make policy not so much by direct order as by example and doctrine. For example, if a high-level character were to preach that each man should have his own personal wild plant as a companion, as an introduction to the Natural world, the clubs would immediately engage in projects which would obtain plants from the Outdoors and which would distribute the plants to citizens (willing or not). Sierra Club members are generally better educated about the natural aspects of the Outdoors, though until they gain first-hand experience with animals, terrain, and weather, they tend to be somewhat naive. Members fanatically protect plant and animal life (including pests like insects and fungi wherever it is found — in the Outdoors or in the Complex.
ADVANCEMENT: Clubs are fairly loosely organized. Sometimes a higher status member requests assistance on a project, but there is no penalty for refusing to help. The higher the member's degree, the greater his knowledge of Nature and the Outdoors, and the more likely he will receive assistance when he requests it. Characters may advance by introducing elements of Nature into the complex, by establishing ready access to the Outdoors, permitting other Club members to visit, and by learning more about the Natural world themselves.
SPECIAL RULES: Characters can purchase the survival skill at half the normal cost. That is, for every skill point spent on the skill, the character's skill level goes up by two instead of one. Also, members have generous access to information and Outdoor gear through the society. Though requests generally should be made well in advance, even a request on short notice may yield some response.
A TYPICAL SIERRA CLUB CONVERSATION:
Citizen: Eeew, yuk. Get it away from me!
Sierra Clubber: But look how shiny its carapace is.
Citizen: I don't care, it's a disgusting slimy thing.
Sierra Clubber: No it's not, really, It's not slimy at all. Look at how he wiggles his little legs. See how brave he is?
Citizen: Squash it Squash it!
Sierra Clubber: No! Isn't Nature serene and beautiful?
Citizen: Gah.
